# Identification-of-a-novel-prognostic-biomarker-that-associates-with-survival-in-bladder-cancer

Bladder urothelial carcinoma (BLCA) is one of the most common cancers that causes death of around 150,000 people a year. The survival rate for early stage of the cancer patients reaches 95.7%, whereas 5% of the metastatic patient is able to survive. In order to improve cancer therapeutic treatment and understand molecular mechanism that underlie deadly malignancies, a prognostic biomarker, which can be an effective target for clinical event in the future needs to be identified.

The prognostic biomarker is a type of biomarkers that provides information that is related to the overall cancer outcome. Also, it can be used to indicate and assess the likelihood of a clinical event in the future and disease recurrence. Since prognostic biomarkers are able to monitor the anticancer therapy, they can improve the treatment outcome of the cancer patient. In addition, The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) has generated the landscapes of primary tumours, including Reverse Phase Protein Arrays (RPPA), gene expression, DNA methylation, copy number variation (CNV), and mutation data. To extract the important information from the different types of dataset, a proper algorithm needs to be used to analyse the data.

In this study, RPPA, RNAseq expression, DNA methylation, copy number variation (CNV), and mutation annotation file data were used to analyse and identify the novel biomarker that associates with survival in bladder cancer using the Cox proportional hazards model, which is commonly used to model survival analysis that evaluates the effect of a large number of factors on survival.
